# Eskiv
In my AP Computer Science A class, our final project was to code the game Eskiv. The design involves five separate class files and one text file. Before the game starts, the program reads a text file to initialize the high score and positions of all elements on the screen. The goal of Eskiv is for the user, who controls the pink ball with the arrow keys, to reach the green square while avoiding the orange balls. The program detects collisions between balls by continuously checking if the distance between each ball is less than or equal to the sum of the two balls’ radii. Every time the user reaches the green square, their score increases, and three additional orange balls are added. The orange balls consist of three types: oscillating, diagonal, and heat-seeking. I coded the oscillating ball by fitting the ball’s vertical acceleration function to a sin curve. I coded the balls that move diagonally by giving each ball a random x and y velocity. If the ball hits one of the walls, either the x or y velocity gets multiplied by negative one. This way, no ball goes off the screen and simply bounces off the walls. I coded the following ball by creating a unit vector that would always point from the orange ball to the pink ball. I then multiplied the speed with each component of the unit vector. The program updates the high score when it's broken by writing the new high score to the text file. If the user wishes to play again, a new game window will pop up if they hit the shift button. In completing this project, I used inheritance, threads, JFrames, and encapsulation. WARNING: This game is extremely addicting, but also very frustrating. Play at your own risk.
